Pan Chengyue, a 4-year-old girl of Miao ethnic group, takes free lunch at the Kaihuai Community No. 13 Kindergarten, which was newly built for children relocated from poverty-stricken areas, in Kaili City, Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture of Qiandongnan, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Sept. 6, 2017. Nutrition program has benefited preschool children in rural area of Kaili since spring this year, with free breakfast and lunch offered to children at rural kindergartens and kindergartens for children relocated from poverty-stricken areas. (Xinhua/Wu Jibin)  

Twin girls Liu Yuting (R) and Liu Yuyao take free lunch at the No. 4 Primary School in Jianhe County of Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture of Qiandongnan, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Sept. 6, 2017. Free lunch project has improved diets of rural students in Guizhou since 2012. The nutritious lunches helped address malnutrition among students in remote and poor areas. (Xinhua/Yang Wenbin)  



Children prepare to take free lunch at the Kaihuai Community No. 13 Kindergarten, which was newly built for children relocated from poverty-stricken areas, in Kaili City, Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture of Qiandongnan, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Sept. 6, 2017. Nutrition program has benefited preschool children in rural area of Kaili since spring this year, with free breakfast and lunch offered to children at rural kindergartens and kindergartens for children relocated from poverty-stricken areas. (Xinhua/Wu Jibin)  



Jin Danling, a 6-year-old girl of Miao ethnic group, takes free lunch at the Central Kindergarten in Sankeshu Township of Kaili City, Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture of Qiandongnan, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Sept. 6, 2017. Nutrition program has benefited preschool children in rural area of Kaili since spring this year, with free breakfast and lunch offered to children at rural kindergartens and kindergartens for children relocated from poverty-stricken areas. (Xinhua/Wu Jibin)  



Yang Lingxi (R), a 6-year-old girl of Miao ethnic group, takes free lunch at the Central Kindergarten in Sankeshu Township of Kaili City, Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture of Qiandongnan, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Sept. 6, 2017. Nutrition program has benefited preschool children in rural area of Kaili since spring this year, with free breakfast and lunch offered to children at rural kindergartens and kindergartens for children relocated from poverty-stricken areas. (Xinhua/Wu Jibin) Chinese scientists design gene-editing tool using light to kill cancer cellsAbsence at PLA maritime parade will prevent US from learning about Chinese Navy: expertsChinese American organization condemns increasing racial profiling in US Modern-day matchmakerCandlelight vigilWestern media creates illusion for human trafficking victims